woe to those who decree unrighteous
decrees who write misfortune which they
have prescribed to rob the needy of
justice and to take what is right from
the poor of my people but widows may be
their prey and that they may rob the
fatherless what will you do in the day
of punishment and in the desolation
which will come from afar to whom will
you flee for help and where will you
leave your glory without me they shall
bow down among the prisons and they
shall fall among the slain for all this
his anger is not turned away but his
hand is stretched out still woe to
Assyria the rod of my anger and the
staff in whose hand is my indignation I
will send him against an ungodly nation
and against the people of my wrath I
will give him charge to seize the spoil
to take the prey and to tread them down
like the mire of the streets yet he does
not mean so nor does his heart think so
but it is in his heart to destroy and
cut off not a few nations for he says
are not my Prince's altogether Kings is
not kaol no like Amish is not hey
math like our pad is not Samaria like
Damascus as my hand has found the
kingdoms of the idols whose carved
images excelled those of Jerusalem and
Samaria as I have done to Samaria and
her idols shall I not do also to
Jerusalem and her I
therefore it shall come to pass when the
Lord has performed all his work on Mount
Zion and on Jerusalem that he will say I
will punish the fruit of the arrogant
heart of the king of Assyria and the
glory of his haughty looks by the
strength of my hand I have done it and
by my wisdom for I am prudent also I
have removed the boundaries of the
people and have robbed their treasures
so I have put down the inhabitants like
a valiant man my hand has found like a
nest the riches of the people and as one
gathers eggs that are left I have
gathered all the earth and there was no
one who moved his wing nor opened his
mouth with even a peep
shall the acts boast itself against him
who chops with it or shall the saw exalt
itself against him who saws with it as
if a rod could wield itself against
those who lift it up or as if a staff
could lift up as if it were not wood
therefore the Lord the Lord of Hosts
will send leanness among his fat ones
and under his glory he will Kindle a
burning like the burning of a fire so
the light of Israel will be for a fire
and his Holy One for a flame it will
burn and devour his thorns and his
briars in one day and it will consume
the glory of his forest and of his
fruitful field both soul and body and
they will be as when a sick man wastes
away then the rest of the trees of his
forest will be so few in number that a
child may write them and it shall come
to pass in that day that the remnant of
Israel and such as have escaped of the
house of Jacob will never again depend
on him who defeated them but will depend
on the Lord the Holy One of Israel in
truth the remnant will return the
remnant of Jacob to the mighty God for
though your people o Israel be as the
sand of the sea a remnant of them will
return the destruction decreed shall
overflow with righteousness for the Lord
God of hosts will make a determined end
in the midst of all the land therefore
thus says the Lord God of hosts o my
people who dwell in silent do not be
afraid of the Assyrian he shall strike
you with a rod and lift up his staff
against you in the manner of Egypt for
yet a very little while and the
indignation will cease as will my anger
in their destruction and the Lord of
hosts will stir up a scourge for him
like the slaughter of Midian at the rock
of horeb as his rod was on the sea so
will he lift it up in the manner of
Egypt it shall come to pass in that day
that his burden will be taken away from
your shoulder and his yoke from your
neck and the yoke will be destroyed
because of the anointing oil he has come
to a Jeff he has passed micron and
mcNeish he has attended to his equipment
they have gone along the ridge they have
taken up lodging at giba Rama is afraid
Gibeah of Saul has fled lift up your
voice Oh daughter of Gallen caused it to
be heard as far as leash
oh poor Anathoth mad mina has fled the
inhabitants of Gibbon seek refuge as yet
he will remain at Nob that day
he will shake his fist at the Mount of
the daughter of Zion the hill of
Jerusalem behold the Lord the Lord of
hosts will lop off the bow with terror
those of high stature will be hewn down
and the haughty will be humbled he will
cut down the thickets of the forest with
iron and Lebanon will fall by the mighty
one